---
layout: article
title: "Modelling intensity of treatment after diabetes diagnosis"
description: "Does early intensive multifactorial therapy reduce modelled cardiovascular risk in individuals with screen-detected diabetes?"
modified: 2014-01-10
image: 
  thumb: paper4_thumb.png
  homepage: paper4_thumb.png
category: papers
tags: [Papers, Publications]
comments: true
---

Black, J. A., Sharp, S. J., Wareham, N. J., Sandbaek, A., Rutten, G. E. H. M., Lauritzen, T., … Simmons, R. K.
 (**2014**). Does early intensive multifactorial therapy reduce modelled cardiovascular 
 risk in individuals with screen-detected diabetes? Results from the ADDITION-Europe 
 cluster randomized trial. 
 *Diabetic Medicine : A Journal of the British Diabetic Association*. doi:10.1111/dme.12410

Aims: Little is known about the long-term effects of intensive multifactorial treatment
 early in the diabetes disease trajectory. In the absence of long-term data on hard outcomes, 
 we described change in 10-year modelled cardiovascular risk in the 5 years following diagnosis, 
 and quantified the impact of intensive treatment on 10-year modelled cardiovascular 
 risk at 5 years. 
 
Methods: In a pragmatic, cluster-randomized, parallel-group trial in Denmark, the Netherlands
 and the UK, 3057 people with screen-detected Type 2 diabetes were randomized by general 
 practice to receive (1) routine care of diabetes according to national guidelines 
 (1379 patients) or (2) intensive multifactorial target-driven management (1678 patients). 
 Ten-year modelled cardiovascular disease risk was calculated at baseline and 5 years using 
 the UK Prospective Diabetes Study Risk Engine (version 3β). 
 
Results: Among 2101 individuals with complete data at follow up (73.4%), 10-year modelled
 cardiovascular disease risk was 27.3% (sd 13.9) at baseline and 21.3% (sd 13.8) at 5-year 
 follow-up (intensive treatment group difference -6.9, sd 9.0; routine care group 
 difference -5.0, sd 12.2). Modelled 10-year cardiovascular disease risk was lower in the 
 intensive treatment group compared with the routine care group at 5 years, after 
 adjustment for baseline cardiovascular disease risk and clustering (-2.0; 95% CI -3.1 to -0.9). 
 
Conclusions: Despite increasing age and diabetes duration, there was a decline in modelled
 cardiovascular disease risk in the 5 years following diagnosis. Compared with routine 
 care, 10-year modelled cardiovascular disease risk was lower in the intensive treatment 
 group at 5 years. Our results suggest that patients benefit from intensive treatment 
 early in the diabetes disease trajectory, where the rate of cardiovascular disease risk 
 progression may be slowed.